[RFC] Establish TVM Unity Connection -- A Technical Strategy (#91)
apache/tvm-rfcs: rfcs/0091-establish-tvm-unity-connection.md

Following best practices from other projects as they evolve, Relax will, as a new optional component, be isolated in its own namespace to minimize disruption to the current flow and design organic interfaces to interact with the rest of the unity components. Also, we do not plan to change the current default build pipeline (`tvm.build` and `relay.build`), in order to minimize disruption to existing users. 

To help stage the set of improvements while minimizing disruption of the current flow. We propose and introduce unity connection as an optional compilation flow of TVM, diagrammed as:

![Untitled 1|690x276](assets/0091/unity_connection_diagram.png) 

In the proposal, the “default build” (those that run through `tvmc` and `relay.build`) that TVM users know today will remain unchanged. TVM unity connection will be added as an optional vertical component. 

> This is a change that is invisible to the current users who use the existing flow as the default build will continue to work as-is. In the meantime, we give our community members (many of whom are excited about TVM unity) abilities to leverage unity connection early as an optional vertical to enable use cases that may not be supported today (such as dynamic shapes, direct topi integration, and cross abstraction optimizations). 

Reviewer: I think it is not just about the community members, but also the users and developers who are not in the community but interested in checking it out.

```python
def call_dps_packed(func, inputs, out_shape):
    out = alloc_tensor(out_shape)
    func(*inputs, out)
    return out
```

Additionally, the BYOC pass will generate additional `runtime.Module` that contains an implementation of `conv_relu_lib`, which is attached to `MyModWithBYOCExtern.attrs[”external_mods”]` attribute as per current BYOC convention. The final build will compile the main function `MyModWithBYOCExtern` along with TIR functions.

There are many advantages of unifying BYOC as IRModule⇒IRModule pass:

- We can choose when to run BYOC, and interpolate multiple BYOC runs if necessary.
- Smart search and auto-tuning can be built on top as separate passes that make the decision and dispatch without overburdening the infrastructure.
- The overall connection point is the IRModule spec: we represent BYOC result as call into PackedFunc and IRModules in `external_mods` attrs, we can explore many ways of smart BYOC planning without increasing the complexity of the interface.

### Framework Fallbacks and Library Integration

> Framework integration is another important thing that gets simplified through the unity connection. Right now we face challenges to support a broad set of operators that the framework support. One approach is to quickly fall back to framework libraries themselves. In other cases, we face the need to leverage in-house libraries, such as cuDNN.  Previously, the choices of the libraries are hidden behind the dispatching strategies in various places and tied to a single build pipeline. Adding support for a new fallback operator involves changing multiple places.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Framework integration is another important thing that gets simplified through the unity connection. Right now we face challenges to support a broad set of operators that are supported by frameworks. One approach is to quickly fall back to framework libraries themselves. In other cases, we face the need to leverage in-house libraries, such as cuDNN.  Previously, the choices of the libraries are hidden behind the dispatching strategies in various places and tied to a single build pipeline. Adding support for a new fallback operator involves changing multiple places.
```

Unity resolves the problem with first-class support of TVM FFI in the graph. So we can generate direct calls onto environment library functions. The example below calls into libtorch.

```python
@tvm.script.ir_module
class MyModWithLibTorch:							
    @R.func
    def main(x: R.Tensor((1, 10, 32, 32))):
        w0 = R.const(shape=(10, 32, 3, 3))
        lv0 = R.call_dps_packed(R.extern("torch.conv2d"), [x, w], (1, 20, 32, 32))
```

> `torch.conv2d` is registered as a PackedFunc in the runtime environment and leverages DLPack to enable the exchange of data between TVM runtime and PyTorch in a zero-copy fashion. We can also go further to automate the generation of such environment bindings, supporting most of the library functions that torch support and automatically fall back when the operator is not available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`torch.conv2d` is registered as a PackedFunc in the runtime environment and leverages DLPack to enable the exchange of data between TVM runtime and PyTorch in a zero-copy fashion. We can also go further to automate the generation of such environment bindings, supporting most of the library functions that torch supports and automatically fall back when the operator is not available.
```

### Solidifying AOT

Centralizing things around IRModule also gives us an opportunity to simplify the assumptions in AOT. Specifically, there is an opportunity to spec out what AOT expects as a final IRModule form.

```python
@tvm.script.ir_module
class MyMod:
    @T.func
    def matmul(A: T.Buffer((128, 128)),
               B: T.Buffer((128, 128)),
               C: T.Buffer((128, 128))):
        for i, j, k in grid(128, 128, 128):
            with T.block("compute")
                 with T.init():
                C[i, j] = C[i, j] + A[i, k] * B[k, j]

    @T.func
    def main(x: T.Buffer((128, 128)), out: T.Buffer((128, 128))):
        w0 = T.alloc_const(shape=(128, 128))
        w1 = T.alloc_const(shape=(128, 128))
        lv0 = T.alloc_stack((128, 128))
        call_packed(matmul, x, w0, lv1)
        call_packed(matmul, lv1, w1, out)
        ...
```

The above code is an example. By solidifying the IRModule spec, we can simplify our development by making assumptions explicit in the form of IR, and build connections (transformations) from the IRModule that contains graph-TIR to this form.

### Customize Fusion

> As we start to experiment with more advanced optimizations, there is usually a need to customize various behaviors in the pipeline. Fusion is one such example. Right now the fusion passes support fusing elementwise operations onto complicated operations such as conv2d. Let us imagine that we want to customize fusion to support fusing two conv2d together. It was a non-trivial task to hack the fusion engines and moves the needles around them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we start to experiment with more advanced optimizations, there is usually a need to customize various behaviors in the pipeline. Fusion is one such example. Right now the fusion passes support fusing elementwise operations onto complicated operations such as conv2d. Let us imagine that we want to customize fusion to support fusing two conv2d together. It was a non-trivial task to hack the fusion engines and move the needles around them.
```

### Customized Operator Support and Direct TOPI Integration

As we start to bring in more ML models, there is a need to enable a broad spectrum of models. Ease of support for customized operators is a common need. Unity offers `irbuilder.emit_te(topi.matmul, inputs)`, which effectively takes a TOPI function and constructs a call into the relevant TIR function. The direct TOPI integration enables us to quickly build up custom op through TVMScript/TE without surgical changes to the codebase.

### Evolving Default Build 

This RFC proposes a first step for us to establish Unity Connection as an optional end-to-end compilation flow of TVM. The TVM unity connection keeps the default build flows of `tvmc` and `relay.build` unchanged in this RFC. This section describes possible approaches to evolve the default build to leverage more of unity components. Note again that this is only a discussion of possible approach is not part of the RFC, but only to bring possible relevant context of future opportunties.

> The exact approach to take and detailed discussions shall happen in dedicated RFCs for each incremental change to the default build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The detailed discussions about the exact approach shall happen in dedicated RFCs for each incremental change to the default build.
```

> One approach to enable unity connection is to start from the low-level part of the default build. Enabling a greater amount of models going from relay (which optimizes graph op) to relax. We will then bring more capabilities to the unity connection while simplifying some of the low-level components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One approach to enable unity connection starts from the low-level part of the default build. Enabling a greater amount of models going from Relay (which optimizes graph op) to Relax. We will then bring more capabilities to the unity connection while simplifying some of the low-level components.
```
